.TH ID3REN 1 "14 july 2001"
.SH NAME
id3ren \- Reads and writes ID3 tags from mp3 files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBid3ren\fP [-help] [-song=\fISONG_NAME\fP] [-artist=\fIARTIST_NAME\fP]
[-album=\fIALBUM_NAME\fP] [-year=\fIYEAR\fP] [-genre={# | \fIGENRE\fP}]
[-comment=\fICOMMENT\fP] [-track=\fITRACK\fP] [-showgen]
[-searchgen={# | \fIGENRE}\fP] [-default=\fIDEFAULT\fP]
[-copytagfrom=\fIFILE\fP [-copysong] [-copyartist] [-copyalbum]
[-copyyear] [-copygenre] [-copycomment] [-copytrack] [-copyall] ]
[-quick] [-noalbum] [-nocomment] [-noyear] [-nogenre] [-notrack]
[-tag] [-edit] [-notagprompt | -showtag | -striptag | -tagonly]
[-nocfg] [-log] [-quiet] [-verbose] [-defcase | -lower | -upper]
[-remchar=\fICHARS\fP] [-repchar=\fICHARS\fP] [-space=\fISTRING\fP]
[-tagfromfilename | -tagffn] [-tagtemplate=\fITAGTEMPLATE\fP]
[-template=\fITEMPLATE] [\fIFILE1\fP \fIFILE2\fP.. | \fIWILDCARDS\fP]

.SH COPYRIGHT
id3 Renamer
   (C) Copyright 1998 by Robert Alto (badcrc@tscnet.com)
   (C) Copyright 2001 Christophe Bothamy (cbothamy@free.fr)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBid3ren\fP is used to rename batches of mp3 files by reading the ID3 tag
at the end of the file which contains the song name, artist, album, year,
and a comment.
The secondary function of \fBid3ren\fP is a tagger, which
can create, modify, or remove ID3 tags.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-album\fP \fIALBUM_NAME\fP
Sets the album name to use when tagging files. All files will be
tagged with this album name without prompting.
.TP
\fB-album\fP=\fIALBUM_NAME\fP
Sets the album name to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this album name without prompting.

.TP
\fB-artist\fP=\fIARTIST_NAME\fP
Sets the artist name to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this artist name without prompting.

.TP
\fB-comment\fP=\fICOMMENT\fP
Sets the comment to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this comment without prompting.

.TP
\fB-copyalbum\fP
Copies the album field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copyall\fP
Copies all the fields from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copyartist\fP
Copies the artist field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copycomment\fP
Copies the comment field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copygenre\fP
Copies the genre field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copysong\fP
Copies the song field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copytagfrom\fP=\fIFILE \fP
Sets the filename to copy tag field from.

.TP
\fB-copytrack\fP
Copies the track field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-copyyear\fP
Copies the year field from the source file tag set by -copytagfrom

.TP
\fB-defcase\fP
Use the default case of characters from the ID3 tag when renaming files.
This is default.

.TP
\fB-default\fP=\fIDEFAULT\fP
Sets the default field to be used only when renaming if a field is blank.
Useful when renaming and creating "unknown" subdirectories.
 Defaults to "unknown".

.TP
\fB-edit\fP
If a file already has a tag and you want to change just one specific field
of the tag, use this option in conjunction with -tag and the option for
the field you want to change.  For example to change just the album name
of a file:
id3ren -tag -edit -album="New Album Name" sample.mp3
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-genre\fP=\fI#\fP | \fIGENRE_NAME\fP
Sets the genre to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this genre without prompting.  To see a list of allowable genres
use the -showgen argument.  -genre accepts either the number of the genre
as displayed with -showgen, or the name of the genre.

.TP
\fB-help\fP
Displays the help screen.

.TP
\fB-log\fP
Log most output to id3ren.log.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-lower\fP
Convert file names to lowercase characters.

.TP
\fB-noalbum\fP
Don't prompt for the album when adding a tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-nocfg\fP
Don't try reading any config files, even if they exist.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-nocomment\fP
Don't prompt for a comment when adding a tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-nogenre\fP
Don't prompt for a genre when adding a tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-notagprompt\fP
Never prompt for tag information.  Files without tags are skipped.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-notrack\fP
Don't prompt for the track number when adding a tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-noyear\fP
Don't prompt for the year when adding a tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-quick\fP
Automatically sets -noalbum, -nocomment, and -noyear.

.TP
\fB-quiet\fP
Run quietly, displaying only errors or prompts.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-remchar\fP=\fICHARS\fP
CHARS indicates a string of characters that will be removed from the
filename if found.

.TP
\fB-repchar\fP=\fICHARS\fP
CHARS indicates a string of characters, EACH followed by the character to
replace it with.  For example, to replace all plus '+' signs with a hyphen
'-', you would use '-repchar +-'.  To do the previous, and also replace
all '&' with '_', you would use '-repchar +-&_'.

.TP
\fB-searchgen\fP=\fI#\fP | \fIGENRE\fP
Searches the list of genres and displays either the genre name
corresponding to #, or shows all substring matches of GENRE.

.TP
\fB-showgen\fP
Displays all the music genres currently in the program.

.TP
\fB-showtag\fP
Display the tags for the specified files.  No renaming is performed.

.TP
\fB-song\fP=\fISONG_NAME\fP
Sets the song name to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this song name without prompting.

.TP
\fB-space\fP=\fIPSTRING\fP
Change all spaces in the renamed file to STRING. To remove all spaces, use
'-space=' or '-space=""'.  The default space character is ' '.

.TP
\fB-striptag\fP
Remove the tags for the specified files.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-tag\fP
Always ask for a tag, even if the file already has one.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-tagfromfilename\fP, \fB-tagffn\fP
Use informations from the filename when tagging. See tagtemplate.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-tagonly\fP
Don't rename any files, just ask for tag information.  Note that -tagonly
only asks for tag information on files that don't have a tag already.
To have it ask for a tag on all files, use with -tag.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-tagtemplate\fP=\fITEMPLATE\fP
Use TEMPLATE as the basis for tagging files.  The default template used
is '[%a]-[%s].mp3'.  Identifiers that can be used in the template are:
  %a  - Artist name
  %c  - Comment
  %s  - Song name
  %t  - Album title
  %n  - Track Number
  %y  - Year
  %g  - Genre
  %d  - Dummy
 It is a VERY good idea to have fixed separators between fields.

.TP
\fB-template\fP=\fITEMPLATE\fP
Use TEMPLATE as the basis for renaming files.  The default template used
is '[%a]-[%s].mp3'.  Identifiers that can be used in the template are:
  %a  - Artist name
  %c  - Comment
  %s  - Song name
  %t  - Album title
  %n  - Track Number
  %y  - Year
  %g  - Genre

.TP
\fB-track\fP=\fITRACK\fP
Sets the track number to use when tagging files. All files will be
tagged with this track number without prompting.
TRACK must be an integer between 1 and 99.

.TP
\fB-upper\fP
Convert file names to uppercase characters.

.TP
\fB-verbose\fP
Display more messages than usual.
 * This option is a toggle.

.TP
\fB-year\fP=\fIYEAR\fP
Sets the year to use when tagging files. All files will be tagged
with this year without prompting.

.TP
And of course the program accepts wildcards for filenames.  
.SH FILES
\fC*.mp3\fR
All your mp3 files

.SH "SEE ALSO"
lame(1), xmms(1), mpg123(1), mp3blaster(1)

.SH BOGUS
If you have questions, comments, or bug reports, please contact cbothamy@free.fr
To get the latest version, please visit http://cbothamy.free.fr/projects/id3ren/
